---
title: Bitcoin's Limited Supply
post_status: publish
featured_image: /_images/BitcoinsLimitedSupply.jpeg
---

<div style="padding:56.25% 0 0 0;position:relative;"><iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/832609918?badge=0&amp;autopause=0&amp;player_id=0&amp;app_id=58479" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; fullscreen; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" title="010 Bitcoin's Limited Supply"></iframe></div>

<div style="margin-bottom:30px;"></div>

## Transcript

One of Bitcoin's unique features is that it has a limited supply. This limited supply is in stark contrast to fiat currency because fiat currencies and international currency, the supply is basically infinite. There is no limit. While Bitcoin has a limit of 21 million, which is based on consensus. 

This limit is basically written down in the software of Bitcoin, and it cannot be changed by anyone unilaterally. The issuance is predetermined by an algorithm that all actors in Bitcoin have agreed upon, and they are securing it via their operating full nodes. It cannot be outed without the consent of the global Bitcoin community. Since the 21 million Bitcoin limit is one of the most important features of Bitcoin, an agreement to change it will be very, very hard or even impossible to achieve. So we have a 21 million limit on Bitcoin, which is based on consensus. If you choose to use Bitcoin, if you choose to earn bitcoin, to save bitcoin, you know in advance that there is this limit. So you agree on it. 

And in the fiat system, the central bankers are deciding on the limit. The central bankers are determining the financial fate of all countries around the world. They are not democratically elected, but they act as governments trying to control the entire financial market. 

This guy is Richard Cantillon, an Irish-French economist who lived from 1682-1734. And he said the first ones to receive the newly created money see their incomes rise, whereas the last ones to receive the newly created money see their purchasing power decline as consumer price inflation comes about. So that's the so-called Cantillon effect. He suggested that inflation occurs gradually and that the new supply of money created by the banks has a localized effect on inflation, because it's rewarding the bankers and the close actors by artificially creating money, which is benefiting those who are closest to the origin of the money. The first people in row who receive the newly created money profit the most because later on, when the money supply is distributed in the society, the consumer price inflation has already set in, reducing the purchasing power of the money. And that's the reason why the rich always get richer. And when the medium class is getting poorer, because we are not sitting on the sources of the money, we are not having securities property to get cheap loans from the banks with which we then buy the next flat that we rent out to the next person who can't afford to buy a flat and who doesn't have securities maybe to get a loan. So the wealth inequality in the last decades has been growing and is still growing. Not only owning assets is an advantage, also being close to financial institutions and authorities pays off in a way. 

The wealth inequality has been rising, as I said in the last centuries, as well as the commodification and monetization of natural resources. Nothing is left to be consumed. The result is what we saw in the last months, weeks, and we will see that more in the coming years. It's a fight for resources, for equal opportunities against the establishment and elites who are enriching themselves through corruption and financial advantages. And that is happening worldwide. It's just on a different scale as we see it in countries like Zimbabwe. Just look at a documentary called the Gold Mafia, but we have that all over the place globally. 

It's the system. Too big to fail. That's not your small business. That's not the hardworking nurse with three children with the debt her husband put up on her balance sheet. It's large corporations like Boeing, corporations that took on too much debt in the years since 2008 instead of building up assets to weather the storms. And we are in a way also at the end of this kind of growth. The fiat money system in the current economy, we need growth. Otherwise the system will collapse. And this everlasting growth is not possible on a globe, on the earth that has limited natural resources. So what's the alternative? 

The alternative is Bitcoin. We see a growing divide between rich and poor, which is based on our current monetary system, which is the real Ponzi scheme. Central bankers are not democratically elected. Yet, they decide the financial fate of the world. Bankers and their friends are profiting from the system. It's time for a neutral alternative, a decentralized, open, transparent, immutable, non inflatable and collaborative form of money for the people, which is Bitcoin.
