---
title: Bitcoin Mining
post_status: publish
featured_image: /_images/BitcoinMining.jpeg
---

<div style="padding:56.25% 0 0 0;position:relative;"><iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/845870784?badge=0&amp;autopause=0&amp;player_id=0&amp;app_id=58479" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; fullscreen; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" title="016 Bitcoin Mining"></iframe></div>

<div style="margin-bottom:30px;"></div>

## Additional Information
* Learn more about Bitcoin Mining in [my talk from the IDBC2023](https://my.cracktheorange.com/deep-dive_what-is-bitcoin-txs-mining/)

## Transcript

Okay, now let's take a look into Bitcoin mining. Bitcoin mining is the process where new bitcoin are issued, and at the same time where transactions are verified, validated and put into the blocks, the chain of blocks to have an immutable history of transactions. So Bitcoin mining is securing the whole system. 

These are two Bitcoin mining machines. In the early days, everyone could mine bitcoin on their home laptop computer. It was very easy to do. But today, we need specialized machines to run this calculations to mine bitcoin and to secure the blockchain. I just want to show you a short video how these machines work in that sense, how loud they are. And they are also very hot because they need a lot of electricity to do the proof-of-work. 

**Proof-of-work**:
And the proof-of-work is important because it's not only a way or the only way we know of to decentralize the issuance of money to make it fair so that no one has a advantage because no one really knows which the next miner is that will win the puzzle, which I will speak about afterwards. So, and also Bitcoin mining has to need a lot of electricity and a proof-of-work because otherwise, as we said before, money has no value. If you can just print it out of the blue and there is no work involved, what value should it have? And so it doesn't have any value without that. And also, Bitcoin mining with the electricity it uses, it connects the digital sphere with the real world because I can't just go and take the ledger of Bitcoin and write something into it and change the mining and the amount of Bitcoin that are issued,  because it's connected to the real world, it needs the electricity. And so it's unfortunate and it immutable. And that's a unique process. In that short video, you can see how loud those miners are, which are doing these calculations. 

**Bitcoin Mining vs. Gold Mining**:
And a miner, at the beginning I believed maybe these are people, you know, other people told me they were thinking about gold mining. Yes, I mean, there is some resemblance to gold mining because with gold mining there's also a lot of work involved in bringing the gold up from the ground. And I would say bitcoin mining as it works with clean electricity, like 57% I think of the electricity used for Bitcoin mining is already green energy from green resources, whereas gold mining, I mean there are people dying. It's a very naturally disastrous process. And also we don't know how much gold there is. We could find lots of gold suddenly and then the value of gold declines. But that's a little bit a step away from our Bitcoin mining. So this is the video. 

**Process of Bitcoin Mining**:
What's the process of bitcoin mining? So in general, we could say that the Bitcoin mining machines and the software that's running on them is checking if transactions are fulfilling the requirements of the network. So the "rules without rulers", I said before. The mining machines then add transactions to a block. So when a new transaction, when you send a transaction, a Bitcoin transaction, it's going into the so-called mempool. It's basically like a cloud of data. And the mining machines then select transactions to put them into a block that they then start to mine. So they run the so-called proof-of-work calculations, like they are solving a mathematical problem. Like a puzzle. The mining machine who is the first to win that puzzle is the machine whose block is attached to the blockchain. And each of the thousands of full nodes I showed you before, those those full nodes software machines, they then confirm that the miner did the right job. And after that, the miner gets the reward, the incentive for doing the job right. And that's at the moment 6.25 bitcoin per mined block plus the transaction fees that we are paying when we are sending a Bitcoin transaction. 

If we talk about mining and the puzzle and what is it? I have an example that we can compare with Bitcoin mining. So imagine you want to fill a museum with artwork made of jigsaw puzzles where each puzzle will contribute to the visitors' experience. So all the puzzles contribute. There are clear rules. Only puzzle that are assembled correctly and have won a competition can be placed into the museum. You will select and give a reward to the child that finishes the most difficult puzzle first. You don't want the child to be able to cheat against others or know in advance which puzzle will win. Now you send 10,000 children all over the world the same jigsaw puzzles, and they start putting it together piece by piece at the same time. The child who finishes putting together the pieces first wins the prize. They have proven that they put the work in and the completed puzzle is the proof. The process of building the puzzle cannot be corrupted. Wrong puzzle pieces cannot be inserted and the child who wins cannot be artificially selected. The fastest child wins the price. These are the rules. You can only change the rules if the parents, the children, the puzzle designer and the museum, all participants in the puzzle's network decide collectively to do so. Here, when we talk about the price, we are metaphorically speaking about the creation of bitcoin. 

That's more or less what proof-of-work is about. Thousands of computers worldwide are solving mathematically riddles at the same time showing that they put an amount of effort in. And at the same time, they are decentralizing the reward earnings so that no one can collude or predict which miner will be the next to add a block to the chain. The effort the miners put in to validate the transactions and form blocks not only proves their work, but also secures the blockchain. You cannot change the past. You can't change historically transactions in the Bitcoin blockchain without spending a lot of money on infrastructure and electricity to rewrite the blockchain. That is why attacks on the Bitcoin network are possible in theory, but are very, very expensive in reality. 

**Security & Decentralization**:
And why this mathematical puzzle? Proof-of-work is resource intensive as computers require large amounts of power. This fact leads to criticism of Bitcoin in light of the climate change that we humans have created in recent decades. But why do we need to use that much electricity? The answer is security and decentralization. The need to put effort and energy into mining protects the data in the blockchain from manipulation and makes it immutable and uncensorable. No state, no organization can change the blockchain. If you are thinking now in that course about starting to use bitcoin, rest assured that the blockchain is secured by mining and distributed identically on thousands of different computers. It's very, very secure. Your most important task is to self-custody your bitcoin and keep the private keys secure.
