---
title: Diversification
post_status: publish
featured_image: /_images/Diversification.jpeg
---

<div style="padding:56.25% 0 0 0;position:relative;"><iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/847057088?badge=0&amp;autopause=0&amp;player_id=0&amp;app_id=58479" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; fullscreen; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" title="023 Diversification"></iframe></div>

<div style="margin-bottom:30px;"></div>

## Transcript

Then there is another recommendation a lot of people give newcomers in the Bitcoin space. It's called diversification. They tell you it's important to diversify your money within cryptocurrencies so that you basically have more chances to make a higher profit in other cryptocurrencies that than Bitcoin. Because they say Bitcoin has reached a very high level of value already. That means you can't have these high gains anymore. 

But if we look at the market proportions, Bitcoin is still the dominating cryptocurrency. It was the first cryptocurrency at all. And it's the only cryptocurrency that cannot be censored, cannot be ceased, and cannot be changed by anyone unilaterally. And that's the big difference to all the other cryptocurrencies. Ethereum, for instance, might be a great system to run smart contracts etc., but it also has a leader, Vitalik Buterin and a foundation. And those guys basically decide on the future of Ethereum. It also had a pre-mine, which is a thing that didn't happen in Bitcoin. And so they say you should diversify your investment into other cryptocurrencies to be able to have higher gains in other cryptocurrencies. Well, but you see that in the last years, many cryptocurrencies that were hyped in 2018 or 19, like for instance, Ripple, Cardano, or Polygon and Solana, they have all been losing market share in recent years. And usually, it's that way that when the Bitcoin value goes up, all the other cryptocurrencies move with Bitcoin up. And if Bitcoin goes down, all the others also go down. So that kind of diversification in my eyes doesn't make any sense. If you want diversify, don't diversify in other cryptocurrencies. Diversify in gold or property or in your education, that's the best anyhow, but that's my personal opinion. I would not invest in Cardano or any other of these coins. 

And also, there's also another lesson to learn. Like in 2017, there were disagreements in the Bitcoin community about how big the block size of Bitcoin should be. And there were people who were opting for a bigger block size, meaning that more transactions fit into the blockchain in one block. And then there was the "small block fraction", basically, who said, no, that's not a good idea because, the bigger the blocks, the more difficult it will be for people in developing countries, who don't have good internet bandwidth. And internet is very expensive. It makes it difficult, more difficult for them to participate. And in the end there was a "block size war" about that. And the result of that was that the fraction who wanted the bigger blocks changed the Bitcoin software. And it came to a so-called hard fork, meaning we had the original Bitcoin and then we had a split up, a so-called hard fork, which then was Bitcoin Cash. And it goes to show that if there are differences in the consensus of Bitcoin, of how it should evolve in the future, then the chains split and we have a new cryptocurrency. And that was Bitcoin Cash. And the confusing thing about that for newbie is that they now see Bitcoin, Bitcoin Cash, Bitcoin SV, whose value went down since 2017, and now they come in and think, oh, that's a cheaper Bitcoin. I buy that Bitcoin. But actually it's not a cheaper Bitcoin, it's a complete different cryptocurrency. So, that's also important to note. And the resurgence of Bitcoin's dominance after 2017, where you also can see here on the chart the the Bitcoin dominance as we say, so like the market share of Bitcoin in all cryptocurrencies, went various deep down and Ethereum almost became the dominant cryptocurrency. And after that moment when Bitcoin regained its bigger market share, people like Lyn Alden or the famous investor, Michael Sailor, realized, okay, if Bitcoin can survive a hard fork like that, then I believe also that Bitcoin can survive future, let's say problems or difficulties. And even if there were technological innovations in the so-called alt-coins, which is everything that's not Bitcoin, then the Bitcoin developers would implement that into the Bitcoin code because if it's such a good invention that we can also use it in Bitcoin, then we can also use it in Bitcoin.
