---
title: Hedge Against Inflation
post_status: publish
featured_image: /_images/HedgeAgainstInflation.jpeg
---

<div style="padding:56.25% 0 0 0;position:relative;"><iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/847613786?badge=0&amp;autopause=0&amp;player_id=0&amp;app_id=58479" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; fullscreen; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" title="030 Hedge Against Inflation"></iframe></div>

<div style="margin-bottom:30px;"></div>

## Transcript

Let's get into the main use cases for Bitcoin in the Global South. In many countries, Bitcoin is a real hedge against the inflation. 

Here you can see a chart of the inflation rate and the average consumer prices in 2021. So, Venezuela saw a price increase by 5500%. I mean, one can't imagine the suffering of the people there. In Sudan the prices increased 200% in 2021 alone. Zimbabweans are sadly always on the forefront of inflation. In the recent inflation dashboard of Steve Hanker, Zimbabwe is on place two in the global chart of highest inflation only topped by Venezuela. And it's usually Zimbabwe and Venezuela who are the leaders in inflation. The sad leaders, I want to say. 

As I've lived a couple of months in Zimbabwe, I know the situation the best in Zimbabwe. And in 2019 the government and the central bank introduced the new Zimbabwean dollar and they promised to the people of Zimbabwe that one bond note, $1 like Zimbabwean dollar will have the same value as one US dollar. And back in 2019, it was the case that people who had US dollar accounts on Zimbabwean banks, their US dollar were changed into Zimbabwean dollar without them having any right to say anything about it. It just was done. And then it was promised to them it will stay that way. But what happened was that this is a picture I took in September, 2022. And if you take a close look, you can see that in that bag there are hundreds of bank notes. And I'm sure that this guy is not very rich. He's just going to buy a few loaves of bread. Because if you look at that slide, you can see that in 2019, 1 Zimbabwean dollar whad the value of one US dollar. And three year, four years later, we had a huge champ to over 1000 Zimbabwean dollars. And just recently in the last days, it champed to 2000. I mean it's un unimaginable how life, how difficult life in Zimbabwe is for people who only have access to Zimbabwean dollar. And what I've learned when I was there, there is even US dollar price inflation and a much higher inflation in the US dollar prices than we have in the US itself. So the prices not only go up in the Zimbabwe dollar, they also go up in the US dollar, which I actually don't understand. Why is that happening? Because the US dollar has its value. So it's really crazy. And it's not without reason that countries like Nigeria, Kenya, or South Africa are on the forefront of Bitcoin adoption. These are numbers of peer-to-peer Bitcoin exchange platforms in sub-Saharan Africa. Zimbabwe is not on that chart because in Zimbabwe Bitcoin exchanges are actually banned. And also financial institutions are banned from using Bitcoin in any form. That doesn't mean that the people can't use it. People are using it. They are using it because they unbanked themselves. I know people who had access to US dollar accounts on banks, but they said, I won't use a bank account anymore because if they just exchange my money and censor it basically, then I don't want to do that anymore. So in African countries, there's real need for a money that can be owned by the people and is not inflatable by governments.
