---
title: How To Defy Volatility
post_status: publish
featured_image: /_images/HowToDefyVolatility.jpeg
---

<div style="padding:56.25% 0 0 0;position:relative;"><iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/847000665?badge=0&amp;autopause=0&amp;player_id=0&amp;app_id=58479" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; fullscreen; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" title="020 How to Defy Volatility"></iframe></div>

<div style="margin-bottom:30px;"></div>

## Transcript

One of the arguments against Bitcoin is its volatility. Bitcoin is volatile. You cannot use it as a medium of exchange because it's too volatile. 

What is volatility? Simply put, the volatility of a currency or money describes its value change. If the price of bitcoin goes up 5% one day and down 10% the next day, then this up and down of the value of bitcoin is called volatility. And the so-called historic volatility is measuring a time series of past market prices. 

Here you can see the bitcoin volatility compared to the gold volatility. And as you can see the blue line, the bitcoin line there, is more steeper up and down. So the volatility is stronger in bitcoin than in gold. But also gold has volatility. All financial assets have volatility. And the interesting thing is, it's not only a bad thing if the price goes down. Of course people say, oh, I lost value in bitcoin. If it goes up, volatility is suddenly a good thing. And for investors or people who say,oh, I'm a little bit late, I'm starting now to acquire bitcoin, volatility is also good thing. A good thing because you actually try to buy bitcoin when the price is low, when people are not interested in it, that's the best time and that's goes for every asset. 

Another argument is then that people say, oh, low income people will never be able to use bitcoin because these price swings make it hard to use it as a store of value. When you can't afford to hold it longer than three to four to five years, as I always recommend. People in emerging countries with high inflation in the local currency and very low income simply have to spend the money. Of course! One thing that they can do is to receive bitcoin and immediately exchange it to local currency to buy what you need. Due you to the short time span, in between receiving the bitcoin and spending it, you have only a small loss or even a small gain. So the use of Bitcoin as financial rails to send money easily around the world without banks or the need for an ID with at the same time low fees and the security that the money can't be taken away from you by the government, is especially important in countries with flawed democracies and even in authoritarian or dictatorship settings. Let's not forget that 54% of humankind have to live in these circumstances. So also for them it's an opportunity to use money in a censorship resistant way and to receive money from globally all over the world, like in remittances with very low fees without intermediaries. And compared to their local inflation, the volatility of bitcoin is still small. 

The bitcoin volatility over the years has also been decreasing. I mean, I agree the bitcoin volatility can be difficult to handle, but from 2011 to 2022, the volatility has decreased significantly. And as bitcoin gains more volume, there are fewer large fluctuations in price. Assuming this trend continues, bitcoin will become less erratic over time and therefore become more attractive to countries with emerging currency. You can also compare the volatility of bitcoin with a small boat (like a boat that's like a nutshell) in the open sea. When you have a storm and high waves, the nutshell, the small boat, is shaking around very wildly. While if you have a big ship, a tanker with the same waves, it's just gliding smoothly over the water. And that's what happens with when there's more volume in bitcoin, meaning the more people are using bitcoin, the more stable the price will become over the years. 

In that slide, you can see the comparison between bitcoin and so-called emerging countries currencies. You can see the volatility going up and down and the blue line is bitcoin and the orange line is the currencies from emerging countries. So, you also see there's a lot of volatility going on. So as I said before, volatility can even be a good thing because if you look at the price of bitcoin, it goes up and down and up and down. And I started in 2017 and suddenly the price went completely gagged, went up to $25,000 or $20,000, and then it had a steep breakdown. 

Again, it's really important that you have a long-term view. So either you receive bitcoin, you spend it immediately on things you need, or you have to think at least two, three, up to five years in the future. You have to have a long-term view. If you have money now that you don't need and you know you won't need it in the next couple of years, you can try and save it in bitcoin. Other than that, if you need the bitcoin to buy goods, daily goods immediately, then spend it immediately.
