---
title: Learning By Doing
post_status: publish
featured_image: /_images/LearningByDoing.jpeg
---

<div style="padding:56.25% 0 0 0;position:relative;"><iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/840868511?badge=0&amp;autopause=0&amp;player_id=0&amp;app_id=58479" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; fullscreen; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" title="064 Learning by Doing"></iframe></div>

<div style="margin-bottom:30px;"></div>

## Additional Information
* Find the flyers about how to install wallets at our [Bitcoin For Fairness Website](https://bffbtc.org/flyer/)
* Find a Bitcoin ATM: [anita.link/atm](https://anita.link/atm)

## Transcript

Hey there. So now I've got some practical advice for you. Learning by doing, that's the thing in Bitcoin. I mean, it's about money. So you are maybe scared and anxious to try and use it because you could lose money. That's true. But now I've got some tips for you. Why this is still a good way to learn. You might feel overwhelmed at the moment after all these warnings and the rules how to use Bitcoin, how to securely store your keys to your funds because self-custody is the way to go, it's important to own the keys to your bitcoin. It's a steep learning curve, that's for sure. But step by step you will manage and see that in the end, it's not that complicated at all. Of course, you need to have an open mind and the willingness to learn. So what are the first steps? 

For instance, you could go to our Bitcoin for Fairness website. We've got flyers in many different languages where we put on the way how to install your first on-chain wallet and your first Lightning wallet. It's for the Blue Wallet and the Phoenix Wallet. These flyers are PDFs. You can download it, you can print it, you can store it, you can give it out to friends. And as I said, it's a short guide on how to set up these wallets. 

As soon as you've set up a Blue Wallet on your phone, you are ready to go and find a Bitcoin ATM. We talked about Bitcoin ATMs in a previous lesson. They look differently everywhere. A link to find those maps is anita.link/ATM. It's below. If you don't have a Bitcoin ATM in your surroundings, you can always go to a Bitcoin meetup and try to find people who want to exchange national currency to bitcoin. And then it's also great if you already have got your Bitcoin wallet on your phone because then they can immediately send you money to it. So a Bitcoin ATM is a device that lets you exchange your national currency and sends bitcoin directly to your wallet without intermediaries. You need to check with your country's regulation for ATMs. In some countries, you can exchange without the need to KYC yourself, so without the need for identity verification. For instance, in Austria there is a limit of €250 at the moment. So if you stay under that limit, you don't need to verify yourself and for that you get KYC-free coins. So basically, your identity is not connected to your bitcoin. In other countries and I think the US is a case where this is true, you need to verify as soon as you just want to use an ATM. Then preferably search for a Bitcoin meetup in your region and ask an attendee to exchange money with you. 

Practice to gain confidence. I know if you don't use it very often, you forget how everything works. It's the same for me. The more I'm using new technologies and things I'm learning, the more practice I get. But sometimes I also have to look up things on Google again how they work. I'm going to the manufacturer's website or to the website of the wallet developers to look up things that I just can't remember because I know of them but I have forgotten how they work or there are so many new developments that I need to learn something new. The easiest way to practice for confidence is when you start to install a wallet on your phone and on your computer. In that online learning program, you will also be sent a little bit of bitcoin. That's the moment where you really will need to install a wallet and learn how to use it. If you're doing that alone, install the Blue Wallet on your phone and you can also install the Blue Wallet on your desktop computer and then you can send small amounts between those two wallets. The best time to practice sending transactions, or sending transactions in general, is usually around the weekend because businesses are not working at that time and so there is less congestion on the Bitcoin blockchain and fees are lower. I mean, if you are practicing Lightning payments, you're not depending on the blockchain at all and payments should go through very fast. You can also use different wallet software. For instance, the Blue Wallet on your smartphone, the Green Wallet or Sparrow on your desktop. 

Another very important advice is to always check your addresses so the address that you receive from the recipient first. If you are sending a really big amount, you should first do a test transaction and send a small amount to that address. And then if the recipient has received it, then you can send the full amount. That's at least what I'm doing with people I don't know or if it's really a huge amount of money. The next thing you always should do is check back if the Bitcoin address you have received is then the same in your wallet, so it shows up the same. So at the end of the sending process you are asked to verify and confirm a transaction. The wallet asks you that and there I'm always checking back if the address that is showing up in the wallet is the same that I got from the recipient. I usually check the first and the last letters and numbers of the address just to make sure that it's the true and the real address and no one has interfered on the way from the messenger, for instance, into the wallet. 

The next thing that's advisable when you are sending and storing critical amounts is to test your hardware wallet. So there is this extra tutorial I'm offering on how to set up a hardware wallet. But I also want to say it here. When you set up a hardware device, initially it creates the seat for you that you write down by hand. Additionally, the vendor, the model, and the software version. Afterwards, you install the vendor software to create the first Bitcoin address in your hardware wallet by clicking on receive. Then send a small amount to that hardware device from your previously installed smartphone wallet. If the amount on the hardware wallet has arrived, you see the status confirmed the first test was successful. 

Also try sending from your hardware wallet to another wallet. For example, you can send a small amount back to your smartphone or another address of your hardware wallet. It doesn't particularly matter. The main thing is that you are testing a payment from the hardware wallet too. To do this, you must check the receiving address on the hardware wallet and confirm sending with one or more clicks directly on the hardware wallet device. That's what I said in the earlier lesson where I showed you the treasure. You really have to press buttons on the device to send transactions. This manual confirmation on the device makes hardware wallets secure, as only you can press the buttons and no one can hit the buttons virtually over the internet. 

Then, as another test, make sure that you have your backup written down and afterwards you can delete all the data on your hardware wallet. Some vendors call it "factory reset", "wipe" or "reset the device". You set back the wallet basically to the status it was when you received it first. Now restore your funds and wallet with the seed. This is called "restore from recovery words", "restore wallet" or "import seed". Then enter your seed phrase on the hardware device. If everything is correct, the wallet is restored and you can see your previous transactions and the balance. Now you successfully have tested your hardware wallet. You've tested the device you can send and receive, and you also have tested your seed. And remember, only enter it with the buttons on the hardware device, not on your computer. 

And then, as I mentioned in an earlier lesson, always upgrade the firmware and the software to your hardware wallet device. You should at least look it up every six months because the Bitcoin space is fast moving, and new developments are integrated into wallet software on a regular basis. If your device gets stolen or you're losing it, remember always your bitcoin are stored on the blockchain, so basically your money is not gone when someone is stealing your mobile phone. Since you set an access pin for the wallet, the thief cannot open it. However, they will still try to find a way to crack your PIN. That's why you should immediately install a new wallet and import the seed that you kept safe to regain access to your funds. Then move your coins from your stolen wallet to a new Bitcoin address in your new wallet as soon as you can. And then that might sound over the top, but still, I recommend you do it: It's advisable to then open a new wallet. Write down the new seed because don't use the seed from the stolen wallet that you just imported to regain access to the funds. You imported it to a device that's maybe online. So you should set up a new wallet. Write down the seed offline and don't use a previously imported seed for a new wallet because it was connected to the Internet and you never know how many viruses you have on your phone or on your device or if a hacker is already inside. If your device gets corrupted and it doesn't work anymore, then you follow the same steps. But there's no need to rush to move the coins because you just need to restore the software wallet and it's done because no one wants to steal from.
