---
title: Mining Pool Centralization
post_status: publish
featured_image: /_images/MiningPoolCentralization.jpeg
---

<div style="padding:56.25% 0 0 0;position:relative;"><iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/847577994?badge=0&amp;autopause=0&amp;player_id=0&amp;app_id=58479" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; fullscreen; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" title="026 Mining Pool Centralization"></iframe></div>

<div style="margin-bottom:30px;"></div>

## Transcript

Another argument against Bitcoin has been in recent years the so-called mining pool concentration. What is meant by that? Well, if we look at the map of the distribution of Bitcoin mining all around the world, we can see that in some countries there's more Bitcoin mining. In some countries there's no Bitcoin mining at all. And the mining pool is a structure that is pooling together computational resources provided by connected hashes like the machines I showed you in previous videos. And it pulls together these resources to increase the likelihood of finding a new block, which results in more Bitcoin reward payouts. As I said before, aBitcoin miner who finds a block and attaches it to the Bitcoin blockchain earns a reward of 6.25 Bitcoin. And so they are mining their resources together to have higher chances to win a block. So while it's true that these mining pools can become concentrated in specific areas or restrictions jurisdictions like in China, before their authoritarian government outlawed Bitcoin mining in 2021, these pools and these countries have less influence than you may first think. 

Firstly, because mining pools consist of thousands of individual miners and just because a mining pool is located in China, it doesn't mean that the individual miner has to be located in China. The hashes want to ensure that the pool they contribute to is engaging in behavior that is aligned to the Bitcoin philosophy. In an event of disagreement, miners are free to switch the pool so they can just direct their software to another mining pool, and that works within hours. In 2013, for instance, the Bitcoin mining pool called ghash.io reached more than 50% of the total Bitcoin hash rate for a short period. Which means they were at that point, if you have more than 51% of the hashing power, you could in theory rewrite the blockchain. But back then, it prompted the individual miners in that pool to proactively point their hash power to other pools in order to avoid a potentially harmful concentration. And the low cost of switching pools acts as a system of checks and balances on the self-regulating behavior of miners. 

The 2017 hard for split between Bitcoin and Bitcoin cash is a second example of how Bitcoin is self-regulating. Miners and big exchanges wanted to increase the block size of each Bitcoin block to achieve a higher transaction output per block. The community of node operators and Bitcoin users did not want to change the block size, as I said before, because people with lower bandwidth would have been disadvantaged. Instead, they opted for a second layer solutions like the Lightning Network to address the problem of scalability. This resulted in the block size war where miners and big companies tried to force the changes upon the network, and that resulted in that hard fork. Bitcoin split into Bitcoin and Bitcoin Cash, and six years or seven years later, Bitcoin Cash is almost forgotten, wile Bitcoin is the largest of all cryptocurrencies. It shows that miners do not have more power than any other users.
