---
title: Phishing Attacks
post_status: publish
featured_image: /_images/PhishingAttacks.jpeg
---

<div style="padding:56.25% 0 0 0;position:relative;"><iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/844635836?badge=0&amp;autopause=0&amp;player_id=0&amp;app_id=58479" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; fullscreen; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" title="053 Phishing attacks"></iframe></div>

<div style="margin-bottom:30px;"></div>

## Transcript

Phishing emails, that's also a real plague. I'm getting so many of those emails, although I've never used Coinbase, for instance, but my email address was in one of those Ledger leaks and so basically all hackers know that my email address is being associated as me as a cryptocurrency user, as a Bitcoin user. And so they are sending me all of those phishing emails and it's really, really dangerous. Don't click on the links in these emails. They are always trying to ask you to look into your account, sometimes even to give away your seed. Never ever give the seed to anyone. It's not needed to unlock wallets or things like that. No trustworthy person ever will ask you for your seed. Never do that. 

Here, for instance, this was one of the phishing mails that I got after the Ledger hack. Dear Customer, this is an automated email to inform you that the 24 word seed recovery to electron is initiated. And then I should click it wasn't me. I didn't click it. So I don't know what's happening after that, but I suppose they are asking you for your seed. One of the tactics is to put pressure on you to say someone else has initiated a recovery or is sending a transaction from your wallet. Go immediately to your wallet and type in your seed or any other, your account name or whatever. Never ever do that. 

A phishing attack works like that. An attacker has your email address. They send you one of these phishing emails. You believe it's really from Ledger or from other trustworthy companies and you click on that link because you want to prevent your money from being stolen. You then visit a fake website. It just looks like the real website, but it's not. Then the hacker is asking you for important credentials like your password, if you are on an exchange, or maybe even your seed. And that, of course, is being used by the hacker, then to drain your wallet and steal all your funds. So never ever click on a link in an email like that. Never trust emails in general because they are not encrypted and the sender can be anyone. Sometimes I receive spam emails from myself. So t's possible to enter your email address as the sender of an email. Never click on the links attached. As I said before, mostly these websites that you visit are prepared by the hacker to steal your data. And also never trust links because sometimes if you can see, this should be an L for electrum.org. Electrum.org is the true the verified website of the Electrum wallet. As you can see here, it looks like a little bit of dirt on my screen, but it's a little dot, and that little "." is the big difference because that's the true domain behind that one. So, you would be visiting a fake website. So if someone, for instance, sends you a mail saying, I'm Coinbase, I'm Ledger, I'm Trezor whatever, go here and there, go to the real website of Trezor, the one, you know, that's not a fake. Go to their Twitter accounts, look if someone has written something there on these trusted accounts, but never click on one of those links.
