---
title: Privacy In The Digital Age
post_status: publish
featured_image: /_images/PrivacyInTheDigitalAge.jpeg
---

<div style="padding:56.25% 0 0 0;position:relative;"><iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/847600444?badge=0&amp;autopause=0&amp;player_id=0&amp;app_id=58479" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; fullscreen; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" title="038 Privacy In The Digital Age"></iframe></div>

<div style="margin-bottom:30px;"></div>

## Transcript

This lesson is about privacy in today's digital world. And I hear and read many people saying: "I've got nothing to hide. So, why do I need privacy?" Well, we've updated our privacy policy. I mean, of course that's a joke, but that's basically what privacy is. To be honest. I mean, you don't have anything to hide when you are on in the bathroom, but would you want that? I mean, that's basically what privacy means. You don't have anything to hide, but you prefer to not show it. And that's personal privacy. I mean, think about that sentence: I've got nothing to hide. Well, you know, millions of people like lesbian people, gay people, opposition members, human rights activists and so on, they don't have anything to hide as well. Nonetheless, they are targets of violence, intimidation, prison, and are facing death in many countries. And that's the reason why privacy is important. Even more so, it's important that every one of us is using privacy protection because the more people who care about privacy, the better protected freedom fighters and vulnerable groups are. 

Bitcoin itself is pseudonymous. That means your Bitcoin wallet and your Bitcoin addresses are not linked to your identity as neither your name, place of residence or IP address is stored. Except you are using regulated exchanges, which have so-called KYC and AML regulation. KYC means know your customer, and AML means anti-money laundering. And as soon as you identify yourself on that exchanges and you buy bitcoin for your national currency and then you send that bitcoin to another wallet of yours, you are being tracked because all those exchanges, they have huge lists of people and their identities and they connect them with the Bitcoin addresses you withdraw to. Some exchanges even follow you around a few steps. And then we have so-called chain analyzers companies, which basically are the new surveillance masters who try to find out what we own and where we send it and what we are using it for. And their clients are banks, exchanges, governments, and it's all said to be done in the name of prevention of terrorism and anti-money laundering. Well, recently I was in a workshop with human rights activists and a lot of them told me that their bank accounts were closed by the dictatorships or authoritarians they were fighting because they told them that the money in their bank account was basically funding terrorism. So they are cut off from the bank accounts. So what are the most important things to do in Bitcoin that you have or can maintain a level of privacy? Well, first is don't announce or reuse your Bitcoin address. If you publish your Bitcoin address on the internet, everyone can see how many coins you own in a in a block explorer. So be careful with this and never put your Bitcoin address on a website and don't share it on social media because then your social media account is associated with your Bitcoin address. 

That's for instance one Bitcoin transaction and what you can see of this transaction in a block explorer. You can see that this transaction has three confirmations and the amount is $2,200 or 0.07 bitcoin. And also you can see where it came from and where it went to. Even if you know a Bitcoin address, you can look it up in a block explorer and see for instance, how much was totally received on that one address. And that, of course, is dangerous because if people see how much you've got on one address, they can think about how much money you own and then you are a target for robbery. And so it's really important to follow basic privacy recommendations for Bitcoin and also not to buy your Bitcoin on a regulated exchange where you need user identification.
