---
title: Seed Backup Conclusion
post_status: publish
featured_image: /_images/SeedBackupConclusion.jpeg
---

<div style="padding:56.25% 0 0 0;position:relative;"><iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/843679350?badge=0&amp;autopause=0&amp;player_id=0&amp;app_id=58479" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; fullscreen; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" title="062 Seed Backup Conclusion"></iframe></div>

<div style="margin-bottom:30px;"></div>

## Additional Information
* Hardware Wallet [Model T from Trezor](https://trezor.io/trezor-model-t)
* Bitcoin Financial Services from [Casa](https://casa.io/)
* Bitcoin Financial Services from [Unchained Capital](https://unchained.com/)

## Transcript

So what are my recommendations now, my conclusion of that chapter? Well, you can always reduce the technical risk by using more devices from more manufacturers and not only one device, one hardware wallet alone. You can set up a single signature with the 3, 2, 1 rule, like having three copies of the seed on at least two different materials stored in three different places. As an alternative, you can get yourself a Model T from Trezor (the link is below) and set up a Shamir backup with, for instance, three out of five shares where you need free shares of five to restore your wallet and your funds. Alternatively, if you don't want to do that, you can get the help of Casa or Unchained Capital. I'm not using those services, but I believe that with Casa for instance, they will send you devices and you still need to set them up. But with the help of Casa Unchained Capital, I actually don't really know how their service works, but they also have an onboarding service. 

And then don't forget to set up an inheritance plan. It would be so, so sad and I always find it tragic if I hear stories of people who died in an accident or something like that and suddenly their heirs can't get access to their funds anymore. Some people say, wow, that's actually great because the amount of available Bitcoin gets smaller. I think that's very cynical and I don't like that idea. So I always advise people to set up an inheritance plan, think about their storage solutions and how their children and their family could access those funds. 

And last but not least, remember, never make a screenshot of your seed. A lot of people immediately want to do a screenshot when the seed shows up. And I always tell them, don't do it because your mobile phone or your laptop and your desktop computer are connected with the internet and you don't even know how many viruses are already on your devices. Never make a digital copy and don't put the seed into the clipboard. Why would you? You don't need that. You just write it down on a sheet of paper, never store the seed to your life savings in a password manager. In the chapter earlier, I told you about password managers and that they are very, very secure in general, but still, I don't have the seed to my life savings in my password manager. I'm doing it for test wallets, yes, but then there's just a very small amount on that seed phrase, which means if it gets lost because my password manager is hacked, I don't care. But my life savings - never, ever would put them on a digital device. I can remember one time, I wrote down a seed phrase and my friend was so excited about the whole process that she made a picture of me writing down the seed phrase and she did it on an iPhone, and iPhones immediately sent those pictures to the cloud and I was completely freaked out about it because you couldn't really read the seed phrase, but I wasn't sure if you can read it. So I asked her to delete that picture immediately also from the cloud. And I never felt very secure, to be honest, until one day then I changed the hardware device and that seed phrase is gone. So it doesn't matter anymore. But these are the small things that you learn over time. Don't make pictures of you writing down a seed phrase. Never enter the seed on any website or on any device, other a hardware wallet where you want to restore your funds. Never send a seed via email. That's their worst. Don't send it on Telegram or any other messenger because no real, credible individual or company would ask for your seed. The seed is also not required to make payments. Also, very important is that you check the seed storage locations regularly. So for instance, you put your seed in a place a hundred kilometers away from you, then you should go there like once a year to look up if the seed is still there. If you're using a hardware wallet, open it and update the software and the firmware at least every six months. Nothing worse than getting your Jade or your ledger or your Model T after three, four years out of the storage and then realizing that the software has updated 10 times. That is horrible. And so I would not recommend to do that. Check it every six months. And when the hardware device is asking you to update the firmware device, then check back. If you have your seed phrase and if it's the true seed phrase, you don't have to enter it, just open it on the device and check it back with your backup, because if the firmware update doesn't work and you can't access your device anymore and the seed phrase isn't correct, then you have a big problem.
