---
title: The Current State
post_status: publish
featured_image: /_images/The%20Current%20State.jpeg
---

<div style="padding:56.25% 0 0 0;position:relative;"><iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/847570188?badge=0&amp;autopause=0&amp;player_id=0&amp;app_id=58479" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; fullscreen; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" title="001 The Current State"></iframe></div>

<div style="margin-bottom:30px;"></div>

## Additional Videos

<iframe width="640" height="360" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/AXLiwrrk3sk" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Transcript

So let's dive into the first chapters of this online course. And we need to start where we are at the moment, at the current state of our economical and financial systems. I think to understand Bitcoin, it's really important to understand its use cases as an alternative to the current financial system, which is being used as a tool of financial operation in many countries of the world. Before I got into Bitcoin, I never questioned the money system. I had no clue how money is being made, how it's coming into the world, who controls it and what it is. Born in the 1970s in a blossoming Europe and a very democratic system, I didn't see the need for a neutral store of value that is backed by something real. I wasn't into stocks or gold. I didn't even save money, to be honest. It was a lack of financial education paired with a non-existent need to learn about money because it had worked decently enough. Of course I knew about inflation and it was always like 1-2%, and everybody said, that's the way it is. There is inflation. I mean, being old enough to have witnessed the change from the Austrian shillings to the Euro. I also lived through 20 years of value depreciation, but never questioned the whole system. I just thought it is as it is, and it's much too complicated to understand. And I had the belief that the people who are in charge are knowing what they are doing. And, to be honest, now with my learnings from over 150 interviews with Bitcoin developers, cryptographers, philosophers, economists, and people like Beck, the one who invented Hashcash (which is the basis of proof-of-work), and Andreas Antonopoulos, who has done hundreds of fascinating talks about how money actually is a system of control and why Bitcoin is the only alternative we have, I see things very, very different. Also, I spent a lot of time in Africa recently and spent eight months in Zimbabwe. I was in Zambia, in South Africa, in El Salvador, and countries where the monetary system is really not working as in western countries. And I experienced and I think I learned a lot from the people who are living here about the hardships and the suffering it brings when money is used as a system of control. And it's used to basically siphon off the value of the people who live here. And for you to also understand that maybe a little bit better, I suggest you watch the video that you can find under the video. It's about how Bitcoin enforces Human Rights. And I'm talking in that article about the United Nations Convention of Human Rights and there are actually human rights like privacy or the right to own property, which are actually just enforced, if we were to use Bitcoin and not in the current monetary system. After that, let's go into the next session.
