---
title: The Petrodollar
post_status: publish
featured_image: /_images/ThePetrodollar.jpeg
---

<div style="padding:75% 0 0 0;position:relative;"><iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/848329294?badge=0&amp;autopause=0&amp;player_id=0&amp;app_id=58479" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; fullscreen; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" title="011 The Petrodollar"></iframe></div>

<div style="margin-bottom:30px;"></div>

## Bretton Woods Conference 1944

<iframe width="640" height="360" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/GVytOtfPZe8" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Transcription

Now that you've learned how money is created, let's dive a little into the history of currency wars and what that is. And that chapter is called the Petrodollar. The history of currency wars is long. Over the past century, the world went from a gold standard system to the Bretton wood system, to the petrodollar system. And each system mostly unraveled from within rather than being brought down externally. Each time one system transitioned to another, a significant and widespread currency devaluation occurred. The first hegemon, in terms of currency, was definitely the British Empire. It lasted from 1871 to the world to the First World war. And back then the pound sterling was packed to gold. And after the interwar period when monetary power began to decentralize, the United States emerged as the central money powerhouse after the Allied victory in the Second World War. 

The Bretton Woods system, which was founded in 1944, was the first example of a fully negotiated monetary order intended to govern monetary relations among independent states. It set a system of rules, institutions, and procedures to regulate the international monetary system like the International Monetary Fund. The United States, which controlled two-thirds of the world's gold, insisted that the Bretton Wood system rests on both gold and the US dollar. Soviet representatives attended the conference but later declined to ratify the final agreements, insisting that the institutions they had created were branches of Wall Street. This can be interpreted as the starting point of the Cold War. 

Down below is linked a video where you can see how the Bretton Woods Conference happened to be. And you can also see the fate of the world was decided back then by a couple of white elderly men, which is not really a very, diversity-focused setting. From Bretton Woods on to 1971, the US dollar was packed by gold and it was the dominating currency, and it has been since then. But in August, 1971, the United States led by President Nixon unilaterally terminated the convertibility of the US dollar to gold and effectively bringing the Brett Wood system to an end and rendering the dollar a fiat currency. And at the same time, many other fixed currencies like the pound sterling became free floating. So fiat currency, as we said before, is a monetary system whereby there is nothing of value in the currency itself. It's just paper or cheap metal coins or digital bits of information like on your online banking. It has value because the government declares it to have value and that it is legal tender to pay all things, including taxes. A country can enforce the usage of a fiat currency as a medium of exchange and unit of account within their country by making all taxes payable only in that currency or by enacting other laws to add friction to, or in some cases outright ban other mediums of exchange and units of account. If their currency has a big enough problem though, as is the case for many emerging markets, a black market  will develop for other mediums of exchange such as foreign currency or hard assets. A fiat currency can also face particular problems when trying to be used outside of its home country. Why should businesses and governments in other countries accept pieces of paper, which can be printed endlessly by a foreign government and have no firm backing as a form of payment for the valuable goods and services without a real backing? What is it worth? Why would you sell oil to foreigners, for instance for foreign paper? And that's why in the early 1970s, there were a variety of geopolitical conflicts, including the Jom-Kippur War and the OPEC oil embargo. 

In 1974, however, the United States and Saudi Arabia reached an agreement. And from there the world was set on the so-called petrodollar system, which was a clever way to make a global fiat currency system worked decently enough because now you had a real asset, a real thing you can basically get into your hands that was backing the petrol dollar. And the petrol dollar system means that Saudi Arabia and other countries in the OPEC are selling their oil exclusively in dollars in exchange for US protection and cooperation. So that means even if France wants to buy oil from Saudi Arabia today, they have to do so in dollars and in return, the United States uses its unrivaled Blue Water Navy to protect global shipping lanes and preserve the geopolitical status quo with military action or the threat thereof as needed. 

So with these currency wars, we are now seeing also new forms of money. We have money by governments, which is issued by governments, and they soon will be starting their central bank digital currencies. And these currency wars are going on and on and on. I mean, in the last months, the first countries we are selling oil for rubles or for the Chinese yen. So we will see a decline of the US dollar in the coming decades. And also there are new forms of money now, like can you remember maybe Facebook wanted to introduce their own digital money, what it was called Diem back then. So we will have money by corporations and we will have money further on issued by governments, but they will also start Central Bank digital currencies. And then as an alternative, a truly neutral alternative, we have the money for the people, which is Bitcoin. Bitcoin is our alternative to this system. It's protecting our privacy in this digital age. And it's voting against the abuse of monopolistic power, which lies in the current system and is giving people living in authoritarian states with corrupt rulers, the same opportunities to participate in the economic system. Bitcoin is a defense strategy, a tool with which we can preserve the human right to transactional freedom and privacy.
