---
title: The History of Bitcoin
post_status: publish
featured_image: /_images/TheHistoryofBitcoin.jpeg
---

<div style="padding:56.25% 0 0 0;position:relative;"><iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/845545115?badge=0&autopause=0&player_id=0&app_id=58479/embed" allow="autoplay; fullscreen; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen frameborder="0" style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;"></iframe></div>

<div style="margin-bottom:30px;"></div>

## Additional Information
* Website where the Bitcoin whitepaper was published: [bitcoin.org](https://bitcoin.org/)
* Learn more about the pre-history of Bitcoin in [my talk from the IDBC2023](https://my.cracktheorange.com/deep-dive_what-is-bitcoin-txs-mining/)

## Transcript

We are looking into the history of Bitcoin in a little bit more detail. So, as said, in one of the previous lessons, on October 31st, 2008, a person or a team, someone going by the name of Satoshi Nakamoto, presented a so-called whitepaper, the Bitcoin whitepaper on the website @bitcoin.org. It was called Bitcoin, a peer-to-peer electronic cash system. And it was in the advent of one of the biggest financial crises the world had ever seen. And on January 3rd 2009, the first block of the Bitcoin blockchain was mined. And as you can see here, the headlines of the times on that day were "Chancellor on brink of second bailout for banks". And Satoshi basically left us a message in the first public Bitcoin block. He or they put the headline of the times into the code, as you can see on the slide. It shows that Bitcoin is a statement and an alternative to the current financial system. Satoshi's intention was to give an alternative, a real true internet money that can be used as a means to exchange value over the global internet. You can see in the slide now how that looks in the code. So it's basically yes, just the sentence inside of the code of the Bitcoin software. 

And that's was, that was the so-called Genesis block, the first block. But Bitcoin didn't come out of nowhere. It has a long pre-history. It's basically over 40 years of research development and also demand for an internet money because if you have an internet where you can communicate globally, it's also, very useful to have money that you can send globally. So you can see there have been many precursor technologies. And also in the 1990s, the first people tried to set up monetary systems on digital rails. One of the first projects, that we know of is from 1990 from David Chaum. It's called, it was called E-Cash. And it used private and public key pairs from crypto cryptography within its system. That's also what's being used in Bitcoin. But E-Cash or DigiCash was a centralized system. It was a company. So basically it could have been shut down at any time, and sometime soon after it went bankrupt. Then there's Hashcash. Hashcash was invented in 1997, around the same time, by Cynthia Dwork, Moni Noar and Adam Back, who is today the CEO of Blockstream. And it's basically the idea, to have a proof of work mechanism. 

Hashcash was made for emails, so you couldn't send out thousands of emails for nothing. You had to put in some sort of work to be able to send emails, and that was actually made to be a spam prevention method. And later on Proof-of-work, the idea of Beck was included into the Bitcoin system. In 1999 there was B-Money from Wei Dai and he was the first to integrate a distributed network into his monetary system. Then in the end of the 90s, Nick Szabo wrote a paper called BitGold, and he had the idea, of how digital money can be issued in a decentralized way. And that was basically another breakthrough in the story before Bitcoin. And then finally it was Satoshi Nakamoto who added the concept of a blockchain to all these precursor technologies. And with that, the so-called double spending problem was solved. And that was the big, big invention, in which Satoshi Nakamoto put together of all these concepts, that made it the revolutionary internet money that it is today.

What does it mean solving the double spending problem? What was the problem before? Well, as you know, if I say I have a PDF file and it's the original. I can tell you it's the original and send it to you but the truth is I'm copying it endlessly and sending it to other people. And you or no one of the other people would know that it's just a copy and it's not the original. So basically since this was not solved before, no digital file could represent any value because everyone could cheat. So that solving of that problem was basically the moment, where people like Hal Finney, who was the first person who communicated with Satoshi Nakamoto, realized that this is the first system that really has a chance, to work in the future. And now 14 years later, it has been proven that it works.
