---
title: The Bitcoin Blockchain
post_status: publish
featured_image: /_images/TheBitcoinBlockchain.jpeg
---

<div style="padding:56.25% 0 0 0;position:relative;"><iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/845550246?badge=0&amp;autopause=0&amp;player_id=0&amp;app_id=58479" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; fullscreen; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" title="013 The Bitcoin Blockchain"></iframe></div>

<div style="margin-bottom:30px;"></div>

## Additional Information
* Popular Block Explorer: [Mempool.space](https://mempool.space/)

## Transcript

Okay, in this chapter we are looking at the Bitcoin Blockchain. What's a blockchain? A blockchain, well, the Bitcoin blockchain is basically a database. It's just a database. There's nothing fancy about it. And it's storing all transactions that have been happening since January 3rd, 2009, in the correct chronological order, which is why Satoshi Nakamoto actually never spoke of a Blockchain. It was always named a time chain. 

And since 2009 until March this year, 817 million transactions have been made, and they are all stored in the blockchain. So what does a blockchain actually do, and how does it look? Just so you can get a sense of it because it can get very abstract. So a blockchain basically connects blocks of transactions to each other. It chains the blocks together so that transactions, which are already in the blocks (they are already mined) cannot be changed afterwards. So Bitcoin mining is the process of securing the right order of all transactions and also securing the whole system, so that it's immutable and, the system itself can see how a chain would break. That's the idea behind. So you have blocks where you have transactions in it, and they are connected with each other through so-called hashes. Hashes are basically the result of all data in a block, one can say. These hashes are like a unique stamp for each black block, like a fingerprint you can say. So basically the first block on the left-hand side has a unique fingerprint. It's the orange-lined value. And in the next block, you can see the same hash. So it is ingrained in the next block. And the blue one shows the hash of block number two. It's the unique fingerprint of that block. And then the next block is added.

And every 10 minutes, around every 10 minutes, one of these blocks with transactions is added to the blockchain, making it immutable. Because as soon as I would now try to change a transaction in block number two, the validation would be reset. So basically, I could see that the chain is broken. And so all nodes that are storing that blockchain see by themselves. They notice, that the chain is broken. So one can see these blocks also in a so-called block explorer. Here you can see block number 786,103 on the right hand side. It was  mined when I made that screenshot four hours ago. It has a size of 1.33 megabytes and it has 2058 transactions. And you can also see in the next block, 3,300 transactions, 2,600 transactions. So it's not always the same of amount of transactions in it. 

And, I would say like that block, for instance, that's almost the maximum of transactions that are fitting into a block. And in one of these block explorers, you can also see Bitcoin addresses. That's why I said Bitcoin is pseudonymous. It's not totally anonymous, but it's also not linked to your identity in general. So in a block explorer, you can see a Bitcoin address and you can also see how much total was received and how much total was sent on that transaction. That data is all stored through the blockchain. You can imagine the blockchain as a database that is saved in a synchronized manner on thousands of so-called full nodes, which are computers around the world. 

The people who are running these computers are people like me or universities, companies or private people globally. Here you can see the global distribution of Bitcoin. Full notes around the world from September, 2019, we had 8,600 public full nodes. Why do I say public and detectable? A lot of people are running their nodes behind Tor, meaning, they are not to be seen. Yeah, so they're running it basically in secret. In March, 2023, that number got higher. Now we had 17,000 nodes globally running. That one can see, reachable nodes. This decentralization makes it really, really hard to attack Bitcoin, which is constantly being attacked because if you hack one of these computers, it doesn't mean anything because there are 17,000 others who carry the same data, the same blockchain, the same identical number of transactions in the correct order. And also attempting to introduce false transactions to the ledger will result in failure because the rest of the nodes around the world would fail to reach a consensus with the note that that is the imposter. And so the network automatically rejects false transactions because it can also automatically identify those transactions. Then there are several types of blockchains, which make a huge difference. So on the one hand, on the left side, you see permissionless blockchains, which are public. They have no central authority. That is what, what Bitcoin is. And on the right hand side you have private and permissioned blockchains, that could be run by a consortium like a group or controlled by one authority only.

And in between you have some hybrid types of blockchains, which are controlled maybe by one authority, but they have some permissionless processes. So only Bitcoin is basically a permissionless public system that has not got any central authority. All the other systems like permissioned blockchains are nothing new. It's basically the same system as we have now with banks, just with different names and different styles. A permissioned blockchain is not really something new. The company, the government running that system can exclude and censor transactions. They can close your account and keep you from spending your money. We are already familiar with the system because it's how the current traditional banking system works.
