---
title: The Lightning Network
post_status: publish
featured_image: /_images/TheLightningNetwork.jpeg
---

<div style="padding:56.25% 0 0 0;position:relative;"><iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/845863001?badge=0&amp;autopause=0&amp;player_id=0&amp;app_id=58479" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; fullscreen; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" title="015 The Lightning Network"></iframe></div>

<div style="margin-bottom:30px;"></div>

## Transcript

So in the last lesson I was talking about the Lightning Network and how it enables massively new business models like charging electric cars, Value for Value streaming, earning money for your online content while people listen to your content. And as you saw, the Lightning Network is a so-called second layer protocol. What does that mean? So, can you remember the blockchains before. I showed you that in some blocks there are 600 transactions and in some blocks there are like a little bit over 3000 transactions. That is a critical point for a blockchain because in Bitcoin it's not possible that you have more transactions on the base layer every 10 minutes, which means not every person around the world will be able to use the Bitcoin blockchain because there are simply not enough transactions possible because a blockchain is not fast. It's actually a very slow tool to decentralize the validation and the verification of transactions and to secure these transactions. And so it can't be faster than that. So that's the reason why Bitcoin developers started developing on another level, which enables us to have faster payments because on the Lightning Network, we don't need to wait 10 minutes at least until a transaction is settled. 

A Bitcoin payment is immediately finalized and then immediately settled and it also is working much faster. So if I send you Lightning bitcoin, you will have it immediately in your wallet. It's also possible to send micro-transactions through Bitcoin through the Lightning Network because when you are mining or when you send your transaction over the Bitcoin blockchain itself, then you have to pay the transaction fee to the miners. And sometimes there is, basically a congestion on the blockchain because lots of people want to send Bitcoin transactions at the same time. And at that time, transaction fees are rising. That means that sometimes if you would try to send a value of $2 over the Bitcoin blockchain, it could be that you need to pay a fee of $5, which doesn't really make sense. And therefore the Lightning Network is a great opportunity to send Satoshi amounts. Satoshis are the smaller unit of bitcoin, so you can basically send, I say 0.01 US dollar cents over the Lightning Network, and the fee you pay is even smaller than that. 

And the third advantage of the Lightning Network is that it makes payments a little bit more private than on the blockchain. The Lightning Network works as follows. It has many payment channels. These payment channels are connected to the Bitcoin blockchain at the beginning and basically at the end of the channel. And in between you have Bitcoin circulating on this second layer much faster, within these payment channels. And only if you say, now I wanna pay out my Lightning Satoshis because I want to have them on the blockchain now, then you move to the blockchain, which is called a swap out. We will see that in later lessons and in some of the practices. I just wanted to tell you that Lightning is one of the solutions. There are many more, will be many more solutions than that. But one of the solutions to scale Bitcoin payments.
