---
title: What Is KYC and AML?
post_status: publish
featured_image: /_images/WhatIsKYCandAML.jpeg
---

<div style="padding:56.25% 0 0 0;position:relative;"><iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/843681904?badge=0&amp;autopause=0&amp;player_id=0&amp;app_id=58479" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; fullscreen; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" title="066 What is KYC and AML"></iframe></div>

<div style="margin-bottom:30px;"></div>

## Transcript
In this chapter, let's talk about the implications of KYC and AML and what it actually means. 

Satoshi Nakamoto said "What is needed is an electronic payment system based on cryptographic proof in instead of trust, allowing any two willing parties to transact directly with each other without the need for a trusted third party". That shows that Satoshi Nakamoto wanted us to be able to exchange value peer-to-peer, from person to person without the overblown bureaucracy and regulations of financial markets and financial institutions that in the end are not helping us. In the end, they need to be saved. And as you learned in the lender of last resort, it's us who are paying for the greed of banks and bankers. KYC and AML regulations have deep, deep implications. 

What is KYC? KYC stands for "Know Your Customer" and AML stands for "Anti-Money Laundering". Then sometimes you will see CFT. CFT means "Combating the Financing of Terrorism". The goal is to fight terrorism, drug cartells and crime in general. It's also why you often hear that Bitcoin is only used by criminals and terrorists. So, well, you know you are not a criminal and not a terrorist. Me, too. So, actually the goal is a little bit overblown, as you will see in the coming minutes. But all financial institutions have to comply with these regulations. This is why I said in an earlier lesson where I said, money is a system of control. That's how the financial institutions have been set up to be the police that is checking all our transactions and surveilling us basically. 

What's the history of these regulations? Well, one could call it good intentions and voluntary coercion. In 1970, the Bank Secrecy Act signed by President Nixon was the first time that banks became deputized. The modern anti-money laundering experiment started in 1989 at the G7 Summit in Paris. The seven big industrialized nations bypassed treaty based consensus to establish an financial action task force, an intergovernmental organization to help prevent drug trafficking. The task force, now known as FATF, later targeted money laundering associated with other profit motivated crimes and terrorism financing. The G7 is not based on a treaty, and while lacking a legal or institutional basis, the G7 is widely considered to wield significant international influence. After a sluggish start with few nations signing up for the new compliance model, the FATF made an offer government couldn't refuse. From 2000 on, the FATF rated countries, anti-money laundering regimes, and issued blacklists and gray lists publicly where they are naming those countries that are not meeting its recommendations. In treating the ratings and the lists as a proxy for risk, instead of factoring in the real risks, the access to the financial system became difficult for many countries. The FATS intention in its own words, was to pressure countries to comply to maintain their position in the global economy. Many financial markets and countries voluntarily joined the anti-money laundering movement. The system depends on a set of self-declared best practice standards. This means that each national anti-money laundering regime basically is reflecting the flaws of the international standard. So the regulation is trickling down from the US and the FATF to all nations worldwide. And that means, and that's the reason why billions of people are excluded from that financial system. All regulated financial institutions and banks of nation states then have to enforce these regulations. Most of those companies or banks are guided by lawyers who advise them to use even more scrutiny than that what's written in the regulation. So all customers have to be identified with their IDs and passwords. They have to show their residents. And secondly, our bank and credit card payments are closely monitored and permanently screened. Maybe you can remember the story I told you about my friend who started a small donation crowdfunding within her own friends and then the bank was calling her what she's doing, and then she actually has to set up an association to do that. Completely overblown! And I mean just to suspect her to do money laundering through that, it's hilarious. I mean it's silly and it shows how the whole system is completely wrong. 

For that verification, every registered exchange has to ask you for your name, your residence address, your phone number of course your driver's license, a passport or a government ID. Then you need to do a selfie where you are holding a piece of paper with the name of the exchange and the date, for instance, or a selfie holding your passport into a camera. And then you might be asked to do a video call with the exchange or an agent who does the verification process. The result is, as I said before, that we are accepting 2 billion people that are excluded from the financial system as collateral damage. We just don't care about these people. But these people have names, they have faces and they have big, big, big problems because they cannot just apply for a job. They can't vote. Just look at these three women. Their father was from Malawi and their mother died without arranging their documents. So they are now sitting in Zimbabwe without ID. They can't do anything. They are just ignored by the system. 

And the joke of that is that you can actually easily go around these regulations for only $200. You can buy a fake ID with which you can verify yourself at an exchange. Here you can see how much you're paying for a verification on several exchanges, like $75 for a Binance account. Also $75 or $70 was for Paxful and LocalBitcoins. Sadly, LocalBitcoins is not around anymore. For crypto.com, you pay $130 and you're good to go. You can basically do what you want with a fake ID. You can trade thousands of dollars and wash money and no one will find it because you have followed the regulation, your ID and your account is verified. I also heard of traders in African countries. So these basically are traders. They collect US dollars from people who want to have bitcoin. So these traders then use their own account at exchanges to exchange that US dollars to bitcoin. I mean, that's basically a good thing because everyone can go to that trader and he's using his verified account for other people. As I said, that's a good thing because that leaves the opportunity for many people to get KYC free coins. But on the other hand, they are connected and listed to that trader's reputation. That shows you how complicated the whole process gets and why then it's better to obtain bitcoin without KYC as I will show you in the next lesson. 

And to be honest, it's not us. It's not us who are laundering money and we are also not financing terrorism. These regulations are used in many authoritarian countries to freeze the bank accounts of human rights activists. Just recently I was showing 50 human rights activists from Africa how to use Bitcoin in a private way to basically topple their dictatorships and retain access to their money. And some of those told me the stories of how their bank accounts have been frozen, how the authoritarian regimes are freezing their accounts. Because for instance, the bank sees when there's a donation coming in or funds or grants from abroad from other organizations to the human rights organization, and then they tell you that you are money laundering or that you are financing terrorism with that money. It's not patriotic that you do that and then they freeze their accounts and steal the money from the human rights organizations. So it's not us, it's not people like you and me who are money laundering, it's actually the banks. And we can see that because KYC and AML regulation has not kept Deutsche Bank and other banks like HSBC from laundering money, but it prevents the billions of people without ID from participating in economical activities. 

KYC requires massive bureaucracy, high costs and puts our privacy at risk because because of data leaks. The exchanges know exactly how much bitcoin you bought, when you bought it. They know your banking information and the Bitcoin addresses you withdraw to. It's publicly known that some exchanges even follow you around more than one Bitcoin address away from where you withdrew your Bitcoin to. And today most Bitcoin companies or Bitcoin exchanges are collecting and storing massive lists of Bitcoiners. They are storing our sensitive personal information and or transaction history. And don't forget the combination of KYC data collection and holding your bitcoin on an exchange also enables to break the censorship resistance of Bitcoin. How so? Many exchanges work together with blockchain surveillance companies which cooperate in many cases directly with governments. Because of the Bitcoin blockchain's transparency and the connection of your data, your identity data with your Bitcoin addresses and your deposit address, any chain analysis company can follow your activities. The exchanges then can freeze your account or block your withdrawal if the government tells them to do so. Still, many people argue that these measurements are reasonable because they prevent crime and terrorism. Well, the fact is that the amount of bureaucracy costs, financial surveillance, loss of privacy, and the exclusion of 2 billion people stand in no relation to a dwarfing 0.05% - you heard that, right?- success rate. That means that 99.95% of all laundered criminal proceeds are unaffected from that regulations. So now tell me it really makes sense to do all those verifications and data collections if still 99.95% of all laundered money goes unaffected. These numbers are not made up. There's a guy called Ronald Paul who states that while the FATF has been very successful in getting its policies adopted worldwide, the actual impact of those policies is rather small. Paul contends that industry and policy makers consistently ignore this. Instead, they are evaluating the policies based on success metrics that are largely irrelevant. So those complicated laws, armies of regulators and costly compliance tasks give the comfort of activity and feeling of security, but they don't make us safe from serious crime and terrorism. To resolve it, we must frankly confront the reality of its failure, says Ronald Paul. 

And it's not illegal to use Bitcoin without KYC verification. It's also not the case that you in your country need to wait for regulations, for local regulations, so that your central bank and your government says, yeah, Bitcoin is legal tender, Bitcoin is legal. You can use it. It's not illegal to not do KYC. It's peer-to-peer electronic cash. And that's the way how we are supposed to use it and don't let ourselves get dragged into the same not functioning system that we have now. And we shouldn't copy the system we already have that's not working and excluding billions of people. And also don't forget history doesn't repeat itself, but it rhymes. And in one of the earlier lessons we were talking about Satoshi Nakamoto's birthday and that it's the date of executive order 6102 signed on April 5th, 1933 by US President Franklin D. Roosevelt. It forbade the hoarding of gold. Basically, the ownership of gold was banned for US Americans in 1933. And while I don't think that governments globally at the same time will be able to ban Bitcoin, one or the other country will definitely start banning it or putting it under so harsh regulations that people just don't bother using it anymore. Because a Bitcoin ban would actually ban people from use mathematics and storing a 12 word seed phrase in their heads. It's just not possible to ban the use of Bitcoin. It's like if you were to ban mathematics, but governments could really try to ban it and also to confiscate it just as they did with gold in 1933. And only in 1975, US Americans were allowed to own gold again. If something like this happened in the Bitcoin space and you got your Bitcoin on an exchange, then you will never get your Bitcoin back. And that's why it's so important to do self custody because if the government doesn't know that you're owning Bitcoin, how should they confiscate it? And as I said before, at the moment, it's totally legal to obtain Bitcoin without KYC. That's also the reason why I suggested that you start using a pseudonym. If you want to talk about Bitcoin on social media or anywhere else, no one has to know that you're using it. And waiting for your government to say it's okay that you're using Bitcoin is like waiting for the government to tell you it's okay to barter the goods with each other because using Bitcoin is nothing else than voluntarily agreeing on the value of a certain unit and then exchange goods or services for it. It's just as simple as that. And we shouldn't make it more complicated and copy the system that we already have. And in the next lesson, I'm going to show you how you can acquire Bitcoin without KYC. And if you don't want to do that for reasons I don't know, you can also get recommendations where to get your Bitcoin with KYC. But of course for your personal security and privacy, I suggest you obtain your Bitcoin without KYC.
