---
title: What is Money?
post_status: publish
featured_image: /_images/WhatisMoney.jpeg
---
<div style="padding:56.25% 0 0 0;position:relative;"><iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/845514241?badge=0&amp;autopause=0&amp;player_id=0&amp;app_id=58479" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; fullscreen; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" title="003 What Is Money"></iframe></div>

<div style="margin-bottom:30px;"></div>

## Transcript

This lesson is about the question, what is money and where did Bitcoin actually come from? So let's look into that. Is Bitcoin actually money? That's a question a lot of people negate. Let's discuss it here. How did that all start? Actually, on October 31st in 2008, a person by the name of Satoshi Nakamoto, no one knows who that was, presented a Bitcoin White paper with the title Bitcoin, a peer-to-peer electronic Cash System. And it was in the advent of the biggest financial crisis we had seen around 2007, 2008 to 2009. And, Satoshi Nakamoto also presented the website, bitcoin.org. A few months later on January 3 in 2009, the Times titled "Chancellor on Brink of Second Bailout for Banks". And the January the third, 2009 was also the first day on which the Bitcoin blockchain was published. So the first block of the Bitcoin blockchain was released. And we are going into the history a little bit later, but what I also want to give you on the way is a little bit of a term where you can remember the properties of Bitcoin a little bit better. I've got that from Andreas M. Antonopoulos. You can remember it's a RIPCORD, meaning: 

<blockquote>  
<i class="mpcs-lesson-icon"></i> <strong>Note</strong>
R: it's revolutionary, 
I: it's immutable, 
P: it's public, 
C: it's collaborative,
O: it's open, 
R: it's resistant to censorship, and 
D: it's decentralized
</blockquote>

And that's the first time in the history of money that we are able to have a digital form of money that is really decentralized and doesn't belong to anyone. So there's no company or no organization behind, and that's the, the way how it also can be our exit and our alternative to the current financial system. So it's the first time in the history of recent years that we have a true decentralized alternative to a centralized financial system. It's such a unique invention because Bitcoin is trustless. 

**EDIT HERE.**

That means we really don't need to trust anyone. The technology is built that way, that it's self-regulating. There are no intermediaries. So if you look at that slide, for instance, on the left hand side, you see a PayPal transaction and you can see how many intermediaries there are, like on, on the, it's Bob who wants to buy something from Sally. So he has to go through PayPal as an intermediate. PayPal is asking for the money from Visa. Visa needs to ask for the money from Bob's bank, then it has to be cleared at Bob Bob's bank, and then the money goes into Sellis bank. Whereas in Bitcoin, you really only have those two people with their access to their value on the blockchain and they can exchange it. And that's also why Bitcoin is a fantastic system, um, where we have basically, um, we don't have human beings in there being, uh, sort of a, uh, intermediary who you ask for permission or who can change anything in the system. And that's why we call Bitcoin is rules without rulers. So a lot of people say, oh, Bitcoin is total and anarchy, and, um, yeah, there are some people who can control it and whatever. It's not true. It's really a system without intermediaries where you don't need to trust anyone, it's permissionless. Uh, you don't need to show your ID to use it. It's self-regulating, it's neutral. It doesn't, um, distinguish between good or bad payments. Yeah. Um, in Bitcoin, every payment is validated and is, um, made to work so no one can stop it. That's, no one can stop it. It's censorship sistant, it's forgery proof like gold or bank nodes you can forge. But for, but you can't forge Bitcoin. It's transparent and auditable, which is also good because that way you can find, you can fight corruption. Just think about nation states and their budget. If you had a budget in Bitcoin, uh, you can follow all the money, how it moves around on the blockchain, which you of course not, you cannot do that with the traditional system. And it's borderless. I can send my Bitcoin globally anywhere, and the transaction costs are not different. It's the same. The internet protocol as such is also a common good. As I said before, it's not owned by a company or by a government. It's really, uh, like, uh, the, the roads on your streets. They belong to everyone and everyone can drive on them. There are no hierarchies in Bitcoin. There is no leader who defines what's going on, uh, in the next years where the code, how it will be developed and things like that. The rules of the Bitcoin network are enforced by consensus. This means that everyone who is a part of, uh, the internet or like a part of the Bitcoin network, be it, uh, you are a wallet user. You are a no runner, you are a minor. We all have the same, how shall I say, uh, voice in Bitcoin. And there are no hierarchies. So no one can only literally decide what's ha what has to happen with the code, how the Bitcoin software is developed in the next coming years. So the rules of Bitcoin are enforced by the programmatically secure consensus of all parties involved. So Bitcoin is the internet money, it's the people's money. Bitcoin is the evolution of money. It's a continuation of the perpetual process of discovering new forms of money that has always been a part of the history of mankind. Let's take a look a little bit at the history of money in general. So at the beginning, at the very, very early beginning, we had physically metal coinage, and then we started to give out receipts for metal coinage storage so that we don't have to carry around bags with money on our bags. The next step was notes, which were redeemable in metal. Um, that was around 1200 in, in China the first time. And the first time in 1700 around in Europe. After that we invented bank nodes, which are not redeemable in metal anymore. So that was globally after, uh, Richard Nixon in 1971, uh, abolished the gold standard. He rendered money basically unpacked by gold. And then, uh, in 1949, the first credit cards came out. So that's an invention that's like 70 years old. And then in 1990, the first concept for programmable, cryptographic cryptographic money came around, but it, uh, needed until January 3rd, 2009 that sat Nakamoto invented Bitcoin. And uh, we will get back to the question of is Bitcoin money a little bit later?