---
title: What You Need
post_status: publish
featured_image: /_images/WhatYouNeed.jpeg
---

<div style="padding:56.25% 0 0 0;position:relative;"><iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/847752837?badge=0&amp;autopause=0&amp;player_id=0&amp;app_id=58479" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; fullscreen; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" title="042 What You Need: Wallet, Address, Seed"></iframe></div>

<div style="margin-bottom:30px;"></div>

## Transcript

So, now that you know about the steps to financial sovereignty, we can go into the details, what you need to start using Bitcoin. So, to acquire, use, and store your Bitcoin in a self-custody way, you need a Bitcoin wallet, Bitcoin addresses, and as we said before, the seed. The seed to your Bitcoin wallet. 

To understand that a little bit better, I have this comparison: A Bitcoin wallet can be compared with A public deposit box where anyone can deposit something into. A Bitcoin address is used to identify where to deposit the payment inside of the wallet. 

A Bitcoin address is basically a long line of letters and numbers. It can also be shown in the form of a QR code. And, to receive Bitcoin, you need Bitcoin addresses, which are in your Bitcoin wallet. The next thing is the so-called seed. The seed, which is the seed phrase you saw before. It's 12 or 24 English words in a certain order. 

The seed is basically all private keys with which the software can open your Bitcoin addresses in that sense. If you have the private keys to your Bitcoin, you can send them somewhere else. The Bitcoin are not inside of your app, they are not in your mobile app. For instance, the Bitcoin are stored on the Bitcoin blockchain, but the private keys to the different addresses unlock those and you can send them to somewhere else. And that is what self-custody means. Your keys, your coins. You are the only person who has access to the money on the blockchain. And it's also important, since the seed phrase is the root of all the private keys for the different Bitcoin addresses, no one else must have access to it. The person who knows the seed has ultimate control over the funds. Access to your wallet is always possible with the seed phrase. So that means when you, for instance, lose your phone or, you need a new phone, um, you always have access to the Bitcoin on the blockchain through those 12 words. And that's why it's so important that you save them, very securely and that you don't lose it. And if your phone, for instance, gets lost, you buy a new phone, you install a Bitcoin wallet, and then you import the seed phrase again into that wallet, then you have access to your funds. Again, this seed phrase is generated by the wallet app during the initial setup. Most wallets guide you through the setup and instruct you to write down the seed words on a sheet of paper. Please really only use a sheet of paper. Don't make a screenshot. Don't save it in any password manager. Don't send it in an email. If your wallet doesn't offer the seed phrase, it doesn't show it to you immediately, look for the create backup or backup feature and follow the steps. The creation of the seed works in the opposite way to the creation of a password as you commonly know it on websites or other services. It's not you who determines the password, but the wallet creates it for you. And the order of the words is really important. You must write down the words exactly in the order in which they appear. 

The great thing about that is also that, since your funds are not inside your wallet, but they are stored on the blockchain, you can move globally all around the world and take your Bitcoin funds with you wherever you go. You just need to remember the seed words in the correct order. After passing customs, for instance, and you arrive in another country, even without a mobile phone, you just get yourself a new phone, install a wallet, and import the seed, and you have access to your money again.
